Birds have  feathers, wings, lay eggs and are warm blooded.
There are  around 10000 different species of birds worldwide.
The Ostrich  is the largest bird in the world. It also lays the largest eggs and has the  fastest maximum running speed (97 kph).
Scientists  believe that birds evolved from theropod dinosaurs.
Birds have  hollow bones which help them fly.
Some bird  species are intelligent enough to create and use tools.
The chicken  is the most common species of bird found in the world.
Hummingbirds  can fly backwards.
The Bee  Hummingbird is the smallest living bird in the world, with a length of just 5  cm (2 in).
Around 20%  of bird species migrate long distances every year.
Homing pigeons are bred to find their way home  from long distances away and have been used for thousands of years to carry  messages.
The chicken is the closest living relative to the Tyrannosaurus Rex.
Many birds kept as pets, including doves, parakeets, and lovebirds, enjoy living in pairs for companionship.
The penguin is the only bird that can swim, but not fly. It is also the only bird that walks upright.
Owls turn their heads almost 360 (a complete circle) but they cannot move their eyes.
Chickens have over 200 distinct noises they make for communicating.
It is estimated that one third of all bird owners turn on a radio for their pet when they leave the house.
The first bird domesticated by humans was the goose.
Kiwi birds are blind, so they hunt by smell.
Some breeds of chickens can lay colored eggs. The Ameraucana and Araucana can lay green or blue eggs.
Chickens that lay brown eggs have red ear lobes. There is a genetic link between the two.
Crows have the largest cerebral hemispheres (brains), relative to body size, of any avian family.
Mockingbirds can imitate many sounds, from a squeaking door to a cat meowing.
The most yolks ever found in a single chicken's egg is nine.
An ostrich egg needs to be boiled for 2 hours to get a hard-boiled egg.
The Royal Albatross' eggs take 79 days to hatch.
The egg of the hummingbird is the world's smallest bird's egg; the egg of the ostrich, the world's largest.
The now-extinct elephant bird of Madagascar laid an egg that weighed 27 pounds.
Air sacs may make up 1/5 of the body volume of a bird.
A bird's heart beats 400 times per minute while resting and up to 1000 beats per minute while flying.
The world's only wingless bird is the kiwi of New Zealand.
Falcons can swoop at over 200 mph.
Penguins, ostriches, and dodo birds are all birds that do not fly.
Hummingbirds eat about every ten minutes, slurping down twice their body weight in nectar every day.
The only known poisonous bird in the world is the hooded pitohui of Papua, New Guinea. The poison is found in its skin and feathers.
Birds are bipedal animals, which means they have two feet and can stand, walk, and run.
They are warm-blooded animals that can lay eggs. These eggs are usually laid in a nest and are incubated by the parents.
Most birds take care of their young for an extended length of time after hatching.
Birds have feathers and a beak with no teeth.
Birds have a very lightweight but strong skeleton.
Birds have forelimbs that are covered with feathers and are called wings. The wings and lightweight skeleton allows them to fly.
Birds range in size from the 2 inch Bee Hummingbird to the Ostrich which can grow to 9 feet tall.
They communicate using songs and calls. They can also communicate by using visual signals, such as quickly flapping their wings.
About 120130 species have become extinct since the 17th century, and hundreds more before then.
Theextinction of many species of birds is blamed on human activity.
There are currently about 1,200 species of birds are threatened with extinction, though efforts are underway to protect them.
